## Leading Question 
Our dataset is the OpenFlights dataset. We are planning to use a Dijkstra's shortest path algorithm in order to find a preferred route using distance as the edge weight. We are also proposing to use Tarjan's algorithm to find strongly connected components. Using these two algorithms, we hope to gain insight into which airports are the most strongly connected to other airports, and if that correlates with popularity of these airports. We also hope to produce a general search tool for finding the shortest path between 2 airports, which could aid in planning vacations.
## Dataset Acquisition

## Data Format
The source of the dataset is from the OpenFlights database. We will be using two datasets, the airports dataset and routes between airports dataset, in order to finalize our input dataset that includes only airports (nodes) and routes between airports (edges) in the US. We will use distance between airports in the US as the edge weight. The input format of the dataset will be in csv format. We are unsure of the size as of now, but are planning for the total dataset to have around 67663 data points that include the source airport ID, source airport location, destination airport location, destination airport ID, and distance between the source and destination. This will be calculated using the longitude and latitude of airports using their IDs. This is before limiting to the US, so we estimate about 1/3 of these points to be kept. 

## Data Correction
If any of these important entries are missing source and destination airport ID, or longitude and latitude of the respective airport IDs, these entries will be discarded. Since we are limiting the airports and airports routes in the US, we will also filter out any airport IDs that are outside of the latitdue and longitude range that we set, as well as filter out any routes that have any non-US source or non-US destinatino airport IDs.

## Data Storage
The data structure that we will be using to store the data will be an adjacency list that takes into account node relationships and edge weight, and we are hoping to use an unordered_map to create this. Once the data is formatted correctly as mentioned above, we should be able to go line by line and insert these relationships into the map, so no extra preprocessing is required. We believe the estimated storage costs are O(n). It takes to O(1) to insert, and we are considering n objects to insert into the map.
## Algorithm 
The first algorithm is Dijkstra's shortest path in order to find the shortest path between two airport nodes. The inputs will be the source node, destination node, and graph (adjacency list). As mentinoned before, we will converting the input data into a Graph structure represented by an adjacency list. The second algorithm is using Tarjan's algorithm to find strongly connected components. The input to this algorithm will just be the graph (adjacency list). We expect the output of Dijkstra's shortest path to be the path of airport IDs and locations printed out in order from the source node to the destination. We expect the output of Tarjan's algorithm to print out the strongly connected airports. For Dijkstra's shortest path, we are setting a maximum of O(n^2) time complexity, but our target will be O((n + e) log n), where n is a node/vertex and e is a edge. For Tarjan's algorithm, we are setting a maximum of O(n^2) time complexity, but want to aim for O(n + e) where n is nodes and e is number of edges. 
## Timeline
First, we want to focus on data pre-processing, which involves creating the cleaned and processed input dataset and setting up the Graph class with the adjacency list representation of the input dataset. This is our first goal, and the deadline we set will be by the mid-project check-in (11/14-11/18). We will be splitting responsibilities based off of the algorithms. After the mid-project check-in, 2 inviduals will work on Tarjan's, and the other two will work on Dijkstra's. By the 12/1, both of these algorithms should be completed with functioning test cases. The following week, all individuals will work together to complete the writeup and presentation video. 